operator/clustermesh: add endpoint slice synchronization (#28440)
cilium-team/cilium: Documentation/network/clustermesh/services.rst

     selector:
       name: rebel-base

> Synchronizing Kubernetes EndpointSlice

Reviewer: I would add information that it's beta feature + taking into account additional permissions for the operator and the complexity of this change, I think it would make sense to add some configuration flag like `enable-clustermesh-endpoint-synchronization`.
This will allow us to merge this change safely and then iterate on it, rather than trying to make this PR perfect.  
For example, with the clientset qps issue I mentioned before, I would be fine with improving that later on and just opening issue for it, as long as we have a feature flag that ensures this feature is not enabled by default, at least for now. Similar with guarding operator permissions/additional clustermesh config being attached to the operator etc.

     selector:
       name: rebel-base

Synchronizing Kubernetes EndpointSlice (Beta)

> #############################################

Reviewer 2: You may want to add `.. include:: ../../beta.rst` below to include the standard message associated with beta features.

By default Kubernetes EndpointSlice synchronization is disabled on Global services.
If you want to be able to discover remote clusters endpoints of a Global Service
from DNS or any third party controllers, you need to enable this behavior by adding
the annotation ``service.cilium.io/global-sync-endpoint-slices: "true"``.

Note that all the Cilium features do not need this enabled to function properly.
For instance, the Cilium ingress controllers works in clustermesh
without enabling this feature, although if you use any other ingress controller
you may need to enable this.

This feature is currently disabled by default via a feature flag.
To install Cilium with EndpointSlice ClusterMesh synchronization, run:

.. parsed-literal::

   helm install cilium |CHART_RELEASE| \\
     --namespace kube-system \\

>      --set nodeIPAM.enabled=true

Reviewer 2: Looks like this should be updated.

To enable Cilium with EndpointSlice ClusterMesh synchronization on an existing installation, run:

.. parsed-literal::

   helm upgrade cilium |CHART_RELEASE| \\
     --namespace kube-system \\
     --reuse-values \\

>      --set nodeIPAM.enabled=true

Reviewer 2: Same here.

     selector:
       name: rebel-base

Synchronizing Kubernetes EndpointSlice (Beta)
#############################################

.. include:: ../../beta.rst

By default Kubernetes EndpointSlice synchronization is disabled on Global services.

> If you want to be able to discover remote clusters endpoints of a Global Service
> from DNS or any third party controllers, you need to enable this behavior by adding

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To have Cilium discover remote clusters endpoints of a Global Service
from DNS or any third party controllers, enable synchronization by adding
```

the annotation ``service.cilium.io/global-sync-endpoint-slices: "true"``.

> Note that all the Cilium features do not need this enabled to function properly.

Reviewer 3: Not clear, please rephrase. I guess you mean “not all Cilium features need this to be enabled in order to ...”, or even “Some Cilium features do not need (this annotation|synchronization) to function properly”.

Although it's also unsure how this is helpful. If I run Cilium, how do I know whether my config will be affected and whether I should turn the option on?

Author: Ah yes indeed this is not clear at all, this was to say that Cilium does not internally need this meaning it is only useful for third party controller/service that consume the EndpointSlice kubernetes API... So yes it need to be rephrased 😅

Author: I rephased this a bit, let me know!

> For instance, the Cilium ingress controllers works in clustermesh

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For instance, the Cilium Ingress controller works in clustermesh
```

without enabling this feature, although if you use any other ingress controller
you may need to enable this.

This feature is currently disabled by default via a feature flag.
To install Cilium with EndpointSlice ClusterMesh synchronization, run:

.. parsed-literal::

   helm install cilium |CHART_RELEASE| \\
     --namespace kube-system \\
     --set clustermesh.enableEndpointSliceSynchronization=true

> To enable Cilium with EndpointSlice ClusterMesh synchronization on an existing installation, run:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To enable EndpointSlice ClusterMesh synchronization on an existing Cilium installation, run:
```

     selector:
       name: rebel-base

Synchronizing Kubernetes EndpointSlice (Beta)
#############################################

.. include:: ../../beta.rst

By default Kubernetes EndpointSlice synchronization is disabled on Global services.
To have Cilium discover remote clusters endpoints of a Global Service
from DNS or any third party controllers, enable synchronization by adding

> the annotation ``service.cilium.io/global-sync-endpoint-slices: "true"``.

Reviewer 4: I will not block the PR on this. @MrFreezeex can we have a follow up PR with the followin sentence:
```
the annotation ``service.cilium.io/global-sync-endpoint-slices: "true"``.
This will allow Cilium to create k8s endpoint slices that belong a remote cluster for services that have that annotation.
```

Author: Sure :+1:, I will try to include that change in a separate commit in one of my followup PRs that I intend to do to address the hostname sync limitation.
